README.md, before:

# Forest Compliance Assurance Platform

This repository captures the modular service architecture discussed with Giuseppe: an integrated offer that pairs EUDR traceability with certification pre-audits, continuous monitoring, and operational-financial planning. Together, the modules support a potential third-party “investment readiness & verification” service for ESG lenders and partners.

## Modules at a Glance

| Module | Description | Primary File |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **EUDR Traceability Core** | Spatial traceability, deforestation screening, and risk evidence for Regulation (EU) 2023/1115. | `docs/01_eudr_traceability/01_eudr-traceability-core.md` |
| **Certification Pre-Audit** | FSC/PEFC/carbon readiness diagnostics with corrective-action planning. | `docs/02_certification_preaudit/02_certification-preaudit-offer.md` |
| **Enhanced Forest Monitoring** | Ongoing satellite, drone, and telemetry alerting between audits. | `docs/03_enhanced_monitoring/03_enhanced-forest-monitoring.md` |
| **Operational & Financial Readiness** | Valuation, capex/opex planning, and financing narratives informed by spatial compliance. | `docs/04_operational_financial/04_operational-financial-readiness.md` |

Supporting references:

- `docs/05_supporting_materials/05-01_dummy-report.md` – Sample multi-supplier risk narrative.
- `docs/05_supporting_materials/05-02_eudr-status-sweden.md` – Country briefing template.
- `docs/05_supporting_materials/05-03_qgis-eudr-workflow.md` – Field data collection workflow using QGIS + Mergin Maps for EUDR evidence.
- `docs/05_supporting_materials/05-04_qgis-eudr-transcript.txt` – Transcript reference for the workflow video.
- `docs/05_supporting_materials/05-07_sample-financial-output.csv` – Dummy financial outputs illustrating module impacts (for tooling tests, e.g., Base44).
- `docs/05_supporting_materials/05-08_exec-summary-alex.md` – One-page executive summary tailored for OpenForests/partner referrals.
- `docs/05_supporting_materials/05-09_got-project-summary.md` – GOT-ready project summary highlighting modularity, customization, and embedded training.
- `docs/06_visuals/` – Drop bespoke maps/figures per engagement.
- `outputs/` – Store final PDFs or decks shared with partners.
- `CHANGELOG.md` – Timeline of notable changes to the repository.

## Notion Sync Bridge

- Copy `tools/notion-sync/env.example` to the repository root as `.env` and paste your Notion integration token (`NOTION_API_TOKEN`).
- Copy `tools/notion-sync/config.example.json` to `tools/notion-sync/config.json`, then map each Markdown file to its target Notion `page_id`.
- Install dependencies once:

  ```bash
  cd tools/notion-sync
  npm install
  cd ../..
  ```

- Run the sync whenever you update docs:

  ```bash
  cd tools/notion-sync
  npm run sync
  cd ../..
  ```

The script replaces page content with the Markdown output and updates the `Last Sync` Date property in Notion. See `tools/notion-sync/README.md` for full details.

## Project Status

- Core service documentation refactored into four modular offers with consistent structure and integration notes.
- Added QGIS/Mergin Maps workflow guide summarising the EUDR geolocation capture process for field teams.
- Repository focuses on manual tailoring; automation scripts removed to keep deliverables engagement-specific.

## Collaboration Workflow

- **GitHub / Cursor** – Primary workspace for tracked edits, version history, and partner onboarding. Use feature branches or pull requests when co-authoring with OpenForests, Giuseppe, or other collaborators.
- **Google Docs (optional)** – For stakeholders who prefer inline commenting. Capture revisions there, then merge back into the Markdown sources with a summarised commit message.
- **Documentation Standards** – Each module follows the same headings (Objective, Methodology, Deliverables, Ideal Clients & Use Cases, Connection to the Integrated Assurance Platform). Keep language modular so components can be bundled.

## Tailoring Blueprint

1. **Start with the EUDR Core:** Establish supplier boundaries, risk ratings, and baseline evidence.
2. **Layer Certification Support:** Use EUDR outputs to target FSC/PEFC/carbon gaps and plan corrective actions.
3. **Add Monitoring:** Define KPIs and alerting cadence so compliance evidence stays fresh between audits.
4. **Translate into Finance:** Convert operational insights into valuation scenarios, investment requirements, and lender-ready narratives.
5. **Package for Third Parties:** Combine outputs into an “investment readiness & verification” dossier for ESG investors, DFIs, or grant-makers.

## Repository Layout

- `docs/` – Core narratives (see `docs/README.md` for module guidance).
- `docs/05_supporting_materials/` – Supporting notes, workflows, and transcripts.
- `docs/06_visuals/` – Engagement-specific figures at print-ready resolution.
- `outputs/` – Canonical PDFs, decks, or briefing packs.
- `CHANGELOG.md`, `LICENSE`, `.gitignore` – Supporting configuration files.

## Next Steps

1. Review each module and infuse client-specific context (region, commodity, partner roles).
2. Coordinate branding updates with OpenForests, Mergin Maps, and financial partners before publishing collateral.
3. Populate `docs/06_visuals/` and `outputs/` with tailored material as projects progress; remove outdated versions promptly.
4. Invite collaborators via **GitHub → Settings → Collaborators and teams** and document any Google Docs references in commit messages.
5. Explore the “Investment Readiness & Verification” concept by drafting a shared checklist that links spatial, certification, and financial evidence.

_Disclaimer: Services provide spatial and environmental risk insights. They complement, but do not replace, legal verification or accredited certification decisions._

Commit message:

Document how to pause and restart financial dashboard

README.md, after:

# Forest Compliance Assurance Platform

This repository captures the modular service architecture discussed with Giuseppe: an integrated offer that pairs EUDR traceability with certification pre-audits, continuous monitoring, and operational-financial planning. Together, the modules support a potential third-party “investment readiness & verification” service for ESG lenders and partners.

## Modules at a Glance

| Module | Description | Primary File |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **EUDR Traceability Core** | Spatial traceability, deforestation screening, and risk evidence for Regulation (EU) 2023/1115. | `docs/01_eudr_traceability/01_eudr-traceability-core.md` |
| **Certification Pre-Audit** | FSC/PEFC/carbon readiness diagnostics with corrective-action planning. | `docs/02_certification_preaudit/02_certification-preaudit-offer.md` |
| **Enhanced Forest Monitoring** | Ongoing satellite, drone, and telemetry alerting between audits. | `docs/03_enhanced_monitoring/03_enhanced-forest-monitoring.md` |
| **Operational & Financial Readiness** | Valuation, capex/opex planning, and financing narratives informed by spatial compliance. | `docs/04_operational_financial/04_operational-financial-readiness.md` |

Supporting references:

- `docs/05_supporting_materials/05-01_dummy-report.md` – Sample multi-supplier risk narrative.
- `docs/05_supporting_materials/05-02_eudr-status-sweden.md` – Country briefing template.
- `docs/05_supporting_materials/05-03_qgis-eudr-workflow.md` – Field data collection workflow using QGIS + Mergin Maps for EUDR evidence.
- `docs/05_supporting_materials/05-04_qgis-eudr-transcript.txt` – Transcript reference for the workflow video.
- `docs/05_supporting_materials/05-07_sample-financial-output.csv` – Dummy financial outputs illustrating module impacts (for tooling tests, e.g., Base44).
- `docs/05_supporting_materials/05-08_exec-summary-alex.md` – One-page executive summary tailored for OpenForests/partner referrals.
- `docs/05_supporting_materials/05-09_got-project-summary.md` – GOT-ready project summary highlighting modularity, customization, and embedded training.
- `docs/05_supporting_materials/05-10_financial-dashboard-notes.md` – How to regenerate or extend the sample financial dashboard.
- `docs/06_visuals/` – Drop bespoke maps/figures per engagement.
- `outputs/` – Store final PDFs or decks shared with partners.
- `CHANGELOG.md` – Timeline of notable changes to the repository.

## Notion Sync Bridge

- Copy `tools/notion-sync/env.example` to the repository root as `.env` and paste your Notion integration token (`NOTION_API_TOKEN`).
- Copy `tools/notion-sync/config.example.json` to `tools/notion-sync/config.json`, then map each Markdown file to its target Notion `page_id`.
- Install dependencies once:

  ```bash
  cd tools/notion-sync
  npm install
  cd ../..
  ```

- Run the sync whenever you update docs:

  ```bash
  cd tools/notion-sync
  npm run sync
  cd ../..
  ```

The script replaces page content with the Markdown output and updates the `Last Sync` Date property in Notion. See `tools/notion-sync/README.md` for full details.

## Project Status

- Core service documentation refactored into four modular offers with consistent structure and integration notes.
- Added QGIS/Mergin Maps workflow guide summarising the EUDR geolocation capture process for field teams.
- Repository focuses on manual tailoring; automation scripts removed to keep deliverables engagement-specific.

## Collaboration Workflow

- **GitHub / Cursor** – Primary workspace for tracked edits, version history, and partner onboarding. Use feature branches or pull requests when co-authoring with OpenForests, Giuseppe, or other collaborators.
- **Google Docs (optional)** – For stakeholders who prefer inline commenting. Capture revisions there, then merge back into the Markdown sources with a summarised commit message.
- **Documentation Standards** – Each module follows the same headings (Objective, Methodology, Deliverables, Ideal Clients & Use Cases, Connection to the Integrated Assurance Platform). Keep language modular so components can be bundled.

## Tailoring Blueprint

1. **Start with the EUDR Core:** Establish supplier boundaries, risk ratings, and baseline evidence.
2. **Layer Certification Support:** Use EUDR outputs to target FSC/PEFC/carbon gaps and plan corrective actions.
3. **Add Monitoring:** Define KPIs and alerting cadence so compliance evidence stays fresh between audits.
4. **Translate into Finance:** Convert operational insights into valuation scenarios, investment requirements, and lender-ready narratives.
5. **Package for Third Parties:** Combine outputs into an “investment readiness & verification” dossier for ESG investors, DFIs, or grant-makers.

## Repository Layout

- `docs/` – Core narratives (see `docs/README.md` for module guidance).
- `docs/05_supporting_materials/` – Supporting notes, workflows, and transcripts.
- `docs/06_visuals/` – Engagement-specific figures at print-ready resolution.
- `outputs/` – Canonical PDFs, decks, or briefing packs.
- `CHANGELOG.md`, `LICENSE`, `.gitignore` – Supporting configuration files.

## Next Steps

1. Review each module and infuse client-specific context (region, commodity, partner roles).
2. Coordinate branding updates with OpenForests, Mergin Maps, and financial partners before publishing collateral.
3. Populate `docs/06_visuals/` and `outputs/` with tailored material as projects progress; remove outdated versions promptly.
4. Invite collaborators via **GitHub → Settings → Collaborators and teams** and document any Google Docs references in commit messages.
5. Explore the “Investment Readiness & Verification” concept by drafting a shared checklist that links spatial, certification, and financial evidence.

_Disclaimer: Services provide spatial and environmental risk insights. They complement, but do not replace, legal verification or accredited certification decisions._
